# Hacking Club Ch01 - 23th May 2017

## Hacking as code

Before getting down with technical details I'll point out some principals to follow during
our hacking sessions. These are not rules but good practices that will keep our knowledge
base in shape:

* Every analysis we do (excercise solution or solving a crackme) should end up with an analysis
script - either `.r2` radare script, `.py` python script or both, and should be put in github.
* When we generalize the things we often do as part of our work - make external tools and scripts
* Any change in the environment we use (installation of tools, etc.) should be backed up with
Ansible playbook/script. Currently I maintain a repository in github for Ansible playbooks
that try to do that
* Write articles in `.md` format (if script with comments are not efficient) and put them in
github repository also

That way when we stand up against a new challenge without our home laptop, we can build up
and use everything we know in a matter of minutes whereever we are.

## Tools Introduction

### Radare2

This is the open source RE swiss army knife. It is a hex-editor, disassembler and debugger
all in one tool. It is multiplatform and it is very light weight in comparison with other
tools. I push this tool to be used during our sessions for these reasons:

* it is open source - this means you can contribute to it, inspect it and start into the field of RE without sacrificing a pile of money
* you can automate work with it in several different ways - it has also several scripting language bindings (Python included)
* it maintains many architectures and file formats

Unfortunatelly there are also a few drawbacks. It has steep learning curve and needs time
to become proficient using it. It is also a command line tool (I consider this a positive 
thing) in its core. In summary I can do an analogy - this is the Vim for RE (and I know
that most of us would prefer the Eclipse for RE).

Pros | Cons
-----|-----
Open source | Sometimes they break `master` and it is very annoying
Maintains large number of architectures and formats | Steep learning curve
It is a command line tool | It is a command line tool
You can run it anywhere - Linux, OSX, Windows |
It is light-weight |
Script automation |

#### References

URL | Description
----|-------------
https://github.com/radare/radare2/blob/master/doc/intro.md | Cheatsheet describing most of the commands
https://radare.gitbooks.io/radare2book/content/ | Official Radare2 book. It is usefull as introduction tutorial
https://monosource.gitbooks.io/radare2-explorations/content/ | Another good resource that has good examples
http://radare.today/ | Radare's blog
http://www.radare.org/r/ | Official site

### IDAPro

This is the Eclipse equivalent for RE.

The difference with Eclipse is that this tool
costs a pile of money (around 2000 euro if you want the decompiler included). It is the
de-facto standard utility for the InfoSec/RE community. It is fancy with nice UI and 
advanced analysis for multiple architectures (if you pay for license cause the free
version can open only PE for 32 bit applications). It has many plugins (which are free of charge)
and has SDK that one can use to extend the tool. I can say many nice things about this tool
but I'll stop and make several points why we are **NOT** going to use it.

#### Why we are NOT going to use IDAPro

##### The price

The price limits the tool to be used only by established professionals that earn enough
in the InfoSec industry. If an individual just starts into the field this is a huge barier.
I'm not considering piracy at all:

* it is not an ethical option
* even if you get the tool you cannot access community resources, SDK and all the other stuff
that makes IDAPro significant
* if you are serious with a carreer in InfoSec, that could costs you to be listed on IDAPro's
wall of shame and be unable to get license forever

##### Closed source

All the know-how in this tool is locked. Although reversing IDAPro is a very good excercise in
RE (I think the license permits reversing the tool) the source is closed with all its cons.

##### It makes you lazy at learning

By using not so shiny tools you inevitably hit issues with analysis and learn how the tool
operates. You are forced to:

* understand the executable file format in more details
* understand how the tool operates and how analysis is done
* extend and fix the tool in different areas
* not using a decompiler and be proficient in reading assembly

Ovarall you learn how to do more with less and at the end develop deeper understanding.

I will use analogy with Eclipse - I know Java programmers that left without their magical IDE
cannot write "Hello world" program that compiles.

#### References

URL | Description
----|-------------
https://www.hex-rays.com/products/ida/ | Official site
[The IDA Pro Book 2nd edition](https://www.amazon.co.uk/IDA-Pro-Book-Unofficial-Disassembler/dp/1593272898/) | Good book on the subject

### OllyDbg

OllyDbg is a free application debugger running on Windows written for the purpose of RE. It has many nice features.
It is very fun to use and was the leading tool from the pre-64bit windows era. If you open a random video
with cracking tutorials on the internet, probably the tool in action is Olly. Unfortunatelly, it only can run
32 bit windows applications and the tool is not maintained. There is a nice projects that is filling the gap - [x64dbg](http://x64dbg.com/#start).

I mention it as history reference. OllyDbg is Windows specific debugger and cannot operate with anything else than
PE for 32 bit.

#### References

URL | Description
----|------------
[x64dbg](http://x64dbg.com/#start) | The OllyDbg ancestor for 64 bit windows applications
http://www.ollydbg.de/ | Official site

## Intro to x86 architecture (continue)

### Assembly Syntax

### Basic instructions

#### Data transfer

#### Control flow

#### Comparison

#### Arithmetic

#### Logical

#### Other

### Interrupts and exceptions

#### Privilage levels (Rings)

#### Syscalls